CS324 Coursework Assignment
WebGL/GLSL 2025

Debmalya Mandal

November 2025

1

Introduction

Your coursework assignment task is to write a graphics program using WebGL and GLSL. You
should use what you have learnt in the practical laboratories and lectures. Note that the program
must run on the department’s Linux machines on Google Chrome browser and you should test
this out before you submit your code for assessment.

Your task is to create a video game. Here is an example [1] as inspiration. The demo code can

be downloaded here [2].

Figure 1: Screenshots of the inspiration demo

You can modify the gameplay as you see fit, so feel free to use your creativity! Please refer to

Section 2 for detailed requirements.

You can use any of the materials from the labs or adopt external libraries. Please note that
any code that is borrowed from other sources has to be acknowledged in the list of references and
in the code itself. Your game should not require the assessor to download any extra software or
library. However, you are allowed to use any software available on the department machines. We
expect that you will need to spend about a week (20-30 hours) to complete the task(s).

Please try to complete the essential functionalities (section 2.1 to 2.3) in the first instance and

work on the cosmetics and desirable features (section 2.4) later on.

If you have any questions, please get in touch with the module faculty. Please check the
FAQ page (https://moodle.warwick.ac.uk/mod/forum/view.php?id=2910952) before submit-
ting any new questions. Good luck and have fun!

1

2 Requirements

2.1 Code Implementation (50 points) - Essential

2.1.1 Game Implementation

All of the following functionalities must be implemented:

1. Levels: You must implement two uniquely designed environments. At the very least, envi-
ronments are considered unique if they look distinctively different. Each level must have a
distinct texture.

a. Environments generated using procedural algorithms will not be considered to be uniquely

designed unless the environments are built using different units.

b. Altering parameters within the same environment will not be considered as a new level

(such as lightning conditions, movement speed, etc.)

2. Light Sources: The game must have the following light sources implemented.

a. Ambient light must be implemented.

b. Must have at least two distinct light sources other than ambient light in each level.

3. Menu: The game must have a main menu that can be operated using a mouse. The main
menu must contain an instruction section to explain clearly how a player can control the
game.

4. Camera: The game must contain at least 2 camera views. This can be achieved either
by using 2 different cameras or a single camera with multiple views. Action games with a
mouse-controllable viewpoint automatically pass this requirement.

2.1.2 Code Linting

Your code and workspace must be properly structured, formatted, documented and checked for
errors. Your code should be properly refactored and structured into different files where necessary.
Functions and methods must be properly commented and have their intended purpose explained
appropriately. You can consider using linters and code formatting tools to help you with structuring
of the code.

2.2 Game Design (20pts) - Essential

The general quality of the graphics produced, and the ease of use of the solution will be evaluated.
It is desirable for all of your imported models and the game functionality to work cohesively. We
encourage you to make a game that also has a creative design or gameplay.

2.3 Report (30 points) - Essential

You should submit a report that clearly explains your implementation and the work conducted for
implementation. Summarize all the main points within 1500 words.

The report must satisfy the following criteria.

2

1. The first section must contain clear and precise instructions so that a 3rd party can run the
code. If we can not run the code based on your instructions, we will apply a 50% penalty on
the points scored for the report.

2. The main portion of the report (not including the instruction section and references) must

be strictly within 1500 words.

3. Please note that the report should be a complete and cohesive document, properly structured

with clear section headings.

2.4 Bonus Points (max 20 pts)

To improve the game quality and user experience, it might be desirable for your game to include
extra features. Please see below a non-exhaustive list:

• Blender Model design, please highlight if you have created your own model in the report.

• Sound, e.g., play a sound every time the player scores a point etc.;

• Heads-Up Display (HUD), visualise on screen useful info for the player using transparency

e.g., health bar, points, remaining lives etc.;

• Animations;

• Collision Detection, to detect collisions between different objects e.g., using Raycaster;

• Physics e.g., gravity;

• Environment Maps can be used to add realism to the scene.

Please note that these points cannot be scored unless the game meets all the essential require-
ments (sections 2.1 to 2.3). Therefore, we suggest that you focus on implementation of essential
requirements first.

3 Collaboration and Plagiarism

As for all pieces of assessment you undertake, the submission must be your own work. You may
have been working in pairs in the practical labs, but this piece of work must be done individually.
Discussion of ideas with your colleagues is OK, but the final piece of work must be your own.

Also, you must not copy without attribution from work you may have found online. Using any

code that is given in the laboratory tutorial examples is permitted.

We will use anti-plagiarism software to look for copying between submissions, with external

sources and past submissions. Any breaches of the rules will incur a severe penalty.

4 Deadlines and Submission Formats

The deadline for this coursework is 5pm Monday, 12th January 2026. Please submit a single
ZIP file with the following structure.

3

• three.js: You do not need to zip three.js library if you use the version used in the labs (i.e.,
the latest release - r170).
If you are using any other version of three.js, you will need to
upload them in the zip folder. Please note that Tabula has limit on the size of submissions
so including three.js may cause a problem while uploading.

• Solution: Folder containing your original source files (.html, .js, .css)

• Extra Libraries: Anything useful to your project that you have not developed yourself.

• Assets: Anything used in your game that is not HTML, CSS, or JavaScript goes in here:

textures, 3D models, fonts, sounds, and so on.

• PDF of a supporting document that describes your code.

5 Some useful resources

• Games Database, it might give you some ideas on what game you may want to implement.

• Fullerton Tracy, Game Design Workshop, 2014, (available through Warwick Library): Book

on how to create a game.

• Three.js homepage.

• G. Moioli, “Introduction to Blender 3.0: Learn Organic and Architectural Modeling, Lighting,

Materials, Painting, Rendering, and Compositing with Blender”, Mar 2022.

References

[1] THREEjs. Controls pointer lock example. https://threejs.org/examples/?q=contr#misc_

controls_pointerlock

[2] THREEjs. Example codes on GitHub. https://github.com/mrdoob/three.js/tree/master/

examples

4

